# Basic shell usage

The shell is the most efficient way to interact with your OS. It offers more options and is more versatile than GUIs (Graphical User Interfaces).

## Common shells

The most common shell out there is GNU BASH. Other well known ones are ZSH, KSH, ASH, and DASH. They are all a superset on POSIX SH - a standard on how shells should behave. They should all work similarly. This guide doesn't asume a specific shell.

## Running a command

To run a command from an installed program, simply type it out :

```
$ echo "Hello world"
```

> [!WARNING]
> Don't type the '$' sign. The '$' means that the command is run by a regular user (you). Conversely, a '#' sign means the command is run with priviledges (sudo or root).

In this example, we tell our shell to run the echo command, which will print our string "Hello world" in the terminal.

## Running a command with the path

Your shell is nice and will automatically understand how to use echo when you type it. However, you should know that you can also run commands by running the path of the program.

For example, this is also valid :

```
$ /usr/bin/echo "Hello world"
```

The echo executable is located in /usr/bin/echo.

## Moving between directories

To move to a diferent directory (folder) use de ```cd``` command :

```
$ cd Documents
```

```
Documents/ $
```

You can also move multiple directories at the same time if they exist. Here we will create directories in Documents and move to them.

```
Documents/ $ mkdir taxes
```

```
Documents/ $ mkdir taxes/2025
```

> [!NOTE]
> The above commands could have been simplified into ```mkdir -p taxes/2025```. We will learn more about flags later.

Now we can move to the 2025 directory in a single command like this :

```
Documents/ $ cd taxes/2025
```

```
Documents/taxes/2025/ $
```

## List the contents of a directory

You can list the contents of a directory by using ```ls```.

```
$ ls
file1
file2
file3
```

You can also specify another directory with ```ls```.

```
$ ls Downloads/
downloaded_file1
downloaded_file2
downloaded_file3
```

# Task

Create a directory called ```homework``` inside of ```Videos/``` and cd into it. 

## Solution

<details>
    <summary>Click to reveal solution</summary>

    $ mkdir Videos/homework

    $ cd Videos/homework
</details>
