# Intermediate users and permissions

As we learned before, UNIX systems have multiple users, and each user has a primary user group (as well as secondary ones). These can be used to set permissions on files for basic security. More advanced tools exist for managing shared ressources and ensuring security (selinux, apparmor, trustedbsd, openldap...), but we will not get into those here.

## Seing ownership

Files are owned by a user and a group. Those dictate what users can access it. You can query a files ownership by running the following command :

```
ls -l
```

The output will look something like this :

```
-rwxrw-r--  1 myuser mygroup 26 Mar 25 09:21 myFile.txt
```

Here we can see that the file is set as being owned by me and my user group. We can also see extra information we will get into just now.

### Modifying onership

Ownership of a file can be changed by running the ```chown``` command with root priviledges specifying the new owner and/or the new group.

Before :

```
-rwxrw-r--  1   myuser    mygroup   26 Mar 25 09:21 myFile.txt
```

Run chown :

```
# chown someotheruser:someothergroup myFile.txt
```

After :

```
-rwxrw-r--  1   someotheruser   someothergroup  26 Mar 25 09:21 myFile.txt
```

## Seing permissions

Wonder what the ```-rwxrw-r--``` meant before ? Well, those are the actual permissions. They represent (in order) :

- [-]   Extra info
- [rwx] Permissions for owning user
- [rw-] Permissions for owning group
- [r--] Permissions for any other user

Okay, but what do the letters mean then ? and what's up with the dashes, you might be asking ?

- (r) : read permission
- (w) : write permission
- (x) : execute permission
- (-) : permission not set

This means that :

The file: is normal
The owning user : can read, modify, and run the file.
Members of the owning group : can read and write to the file.
Other users : can only read the file

### Changing permissions

Permissions can be changed with the ```chmod``` command. 

#### Adding individual permissions

We can chose to set permissions individually for the user (u), group (g), or others (o) :

```
# chmod u+x myScript.sh
```

This adds (+) execution priviledges (x) for the owning user (u).

#### Adding global permissions

Alternatively, we can set permissions globaly :

```
# chmod +w myFile.txt
```

This will let anyone write to the file.

#### Revoking permissions

Inversely, we can revoke permission by using a minus sign instead of a plus sign :

```
# chmod u-x myScript.sh
```

This removes (-) execution priviledges (x) for the owning user (u).


# Task

- Explain the permissions and ownership of the ```/etc/group``` file

## Solution

<details>
    <summary>Click to reveal solution</summary>

    $ ls -l /etc/group
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 969 Jul  8 13:26 /etc/group    

    The file is owned my the root user and root's group. The file is a normal file and is readable by everyone. It is, however, only writeable by root.

</details>
