# Intermediate program install

Sometimes you won't find a program in your Distro's package manager. But don't be alarmed, that doesn't mean you're out of luck, it just means that your distro's maintainers didn't do your homework for you.

## Using git

Git is the other of Linus' children. It was created to make development and collaboration easier. You will find it very useful, even if you're not a programmer.

### Cloning a repository

Hurray !! You found the source code of the program you wanted to install. But how do you get a copy of it ? Git clone is your friend.

```
$ git clone https://example.com/repo.git
```

The above command creates a fresh copy of the repository (fancy name for a git project) on your computer.

> [!TIP]
> Cloning repositories is a semi-common procedure so you might want to create a ```~/Clones``` or ```~/Builds``` directory to keep things organised on your filesystem.

### Building a program

> [!NOTE]
> Compiling from source can take a while. You are translating source code to a raw binary file. Do not be alarmed, and "trust the process".

This varies from project to project and language to language. But the gist of it is this :
- Read the README file for information the devs left
- Follow the instructions
- Enjoy your free software

### If the above fails
If the devs didn't leave instructions you can always look for a ```Makefile``` or script named ```build``` or ```compile```.

Most of the time, you want to look for a file called ```Makefile```. Then it's as easy as running the ```make``` command in the same directory.

```
$ make
```

### Installing your program

Great !! You have the software now. But it doesn't run when you type it's name on the terminal, only when you run the binary file.

```
~ > myprogram
bash: myprogram: command not found
```

You want to add the program to your PATH. The easiest, and probably safest way to do it, is to include it in a directory like ```/usr/local/bin```.

This is by far not the only option, but it will keep things tidy. You will be able to tell at a glance which programs you intalled through your package manager, and which ones you installed by building from source.

```
intall -m 755 myprogram /usr/local/bin
```

The above command copies the file to the target while allowing extra options. Here we are setting the permissions ```755```. Can you try to remember what that means ?


### Upgrading your software

The annoying quirk of installing from source manually is that the software you set up won't be automatically upgraded to newer versions by your package manager.

The sollution is to do the same thing again.

```
$ git pull
```

The pull subcommand gets you the newest changes in the repo's master (main) branch.

```
$ make clean && make
```

This will replace your previous build with the new one. From here, just copy the binary to your path again.

# Task

Install fastfetch and add it to your path.

## Solution

<details>
    <summary>Click to reveal solution</summary>

    $ git clone https://github.com/fastfetch-cli.git

    $ cd fastfetch-cli/

    $ mkdir -p build

    $ cd build

    $ cmake ..

    $ cmake --build . --target fastfetch

    # install -m 755 fastfetch /usr/local/bin/

</details>
