# Basic program install

There are a million ways to install programs on linux. Most of them are much more convenient than the Windows approach of hunting online for .exe files. Here we will see how to do it via commands.

## Installing a program with commands

This guide assumes you are using a Debian based OS (Debian, Ubuntu, Mint, PopOS...). You can install programs by doing the following :

### Update the mirror list

These are your "program servers". They contain a list of servers you can update and install programs from.

> [!TIP]
> Run as root or with sudo, as indicated by the '#'.

```
# apt update
```

Updating the mirror list will give you the most up-to-date packages (programs) available for your system configuration.

### Installing a program

You can install a program by typing its name after ```apt install```. 

```
# apt install vim
```

> [!TIP]
> Many commands like ```apt install``` will ask for confirmation in the (Y/n) form. This means YES/no. The one with a capital letter is the defaul. This means that you can accept by just pressing enter.
> Similarly, you can use ```apt install -y your_package_name``` to bypass the confirmation.

You can also install multible programs at the same time

```
# apt install neofetch tree
```

### Upgrading your system

In linux, because (almost) all of the programs are handled by the package manager (```apt``` on Debian, ```pacman``` on Arch, ```dnf``` on RHEL) you can upgrade all of the programs in your computer with a single command.

```
# apt upgrade
```

Easy? Isn't it? The best part is that you can choose WHEN to update. And are never forced to reboot after an update (although it's good practice to do so).

# Task

Install ```cowsay``` and run a hello world with it.

## Solution

<details>
    <summary>Click to reveal solution</summary>

    # apt update

    # apt install -y cowsay

    $ cowsay "hello world"
     ______________
    < Hello world! >
     --------------
            \   ^__^
             \  (oo)\_______
                (__)\       )\/\
                    ||----w |
                    ||     ||
</details>
