# Intermediate shell usage

Shells can be customised by editing the dotfiles (hidden files in your home directory). Profile files are run when you log in, and rc files are run when you open a terminal.

## Environment variables

Environment variables are special variables that you can customise, print and use in scripts. For example, $USER will print the current user :

```
your_user_name@system:~ $ echo $USER
yout_user_name
```

You can create or edit environment variables like this :

```
$ DAY="monday"
```

That will print ```monday```.

Similarly, you can asign an environment variable the output of a command (in this case ```uname```) :

```
$ OS=$(uname)
```

That will print ```Linux```.

## Save environment variables

You can save environment variables in profile files, and run scripts or commands in rc files. Export will make a variable global - as opposed to specific to your curren terminal session.

```
export MYNAME=Bob
```

> [!NOTE]
> Different shells reference diferent profile and rc files. ```.profile``` is to be used by a POSIX shell. Check the default profile file for your shell in the man page (or online).

To save environment variabless globally for all users, edit ```/etc/profile```.

## Run commands

You can run commands automatically when you log in. This can be particularly useful in a tty. For example, you can run a graphical session as soon as you log into a tty (more on ttys later).

```
if [[ -z $DISPLAY ]] && [[ $(tty) = /dev/tty1 ]]; then exec sway; fi
```

The shell script above starts the sway window manager "if there is a display" and if the current tty is tty1.

## Set aliases

You might run some commands very frequently. You can combine multiple commands into one or rename them with alias. Add this to your rc file (depends on shell).

```
alias sl='ls'
```

The above alias runs ```ls``` in case you miss-spell it as ```sl```.

## Pipes

Pipes are one of the best things about UNIX-like operating systems like Linux. You can redirect the output of a command to another command.

```
apt list --installed | grep firefox
```

The first command list packages installed by apt, the second command filters the word "firefox". If firefox is installed, it will be printed on the terminal.

# Task

Install ```fortune-mod```, pipe it into cowsay. Make sure it happens every time you open a terminal.


## Solution

<details>
    <summary>Click to reveal solution</summary>

    # apt install -y fortune-mod

    $ echo "fortune | cowsay" >> ~/.profile

    Now, log out, and log in again.
     _____________________________________
    / If there is a wrong way to do       \
    | something, then someone will do it. |
    |                                     |
    \ -- Edward A. Murphy Jr.             /
     -------------------------------------
            \   ^__^
             \  (oo)\_______
                (__)\       )\/\
                    ||----w |
                    ||     ||
</details>
