# Intermediate file system structure

As previously examined, the average linux filesystem follows a certain order. If you know what you are looking for, you will be able to find it by asking yourself the proper questions.

## Directories and their use

### Normal directories
- ```/``` : The root of the file system
- ```/boot``` : General directory for booting (here is located the Linux kernel)
- ```/efi``` : Directory for UEFI boot (modern booting)
- ```/dev``` : Directory for device files. These are files that represent hardware, virtual terminals, magic files, etc.
- ```/home``` : User homes
- ```/proc``` : Information about running processes (gets cleared after rebooting)
- ```/var``` : Variable files (think logs, for example)
- ```/etc``` : System-wide config files
- ```/root``` : Root's home
- ```/srv``` : Used for servers
- ```/opt``` : Programs installed externally
- ```/sys``` : Exposes system information and configuration that can be modified (gets cleared after rebooting)
- ```/run``` : Runtime data for processes (gets cleared after rebooting)
- ```/mnt``` : Location for manually and temporarily mounting devices
- ```/media``` : Location for automatically and temporarily mounting devices
- ```/lost+found``` : For "lost files" that represent data on the hard drive, but no file on the file system

### ```/usr``` and company
- ```/usr``` : Directory for "everything else"
- ```/lib``` : System libraries. Usualy a symbolic link to ```/usr/lib```
- ```/lib64``` : 64 bit System libraries. Usualy a symbolic link to ```/usr/lib```
- ```/bin``` : Programs. Usualy a symbolic link to ```/usr/bin```
- ```/sbin``` : System Programs. Usualy a symbolic link to ```/usr/bin```

Inside of ```/usr```, you can find other directories :

- ```/usr/include``` : include files for system libraries and programs
- ```/usr/local``` : locally installed programs
- ```/usr/lib32``` : 32 bit libraries
- ```/usr/share``` : files that "can be shared regardless of the computer". Not programs.
- ```/usr/src``` : source code for compiled programs

## Config files

### Scope

There are two type of config files : system-wide config files and user specific config files. As mentioned before, system-wide config files — also considered default config files — are stored in ```/etc```. Whereas, user specific config files are located in the user's home under ```.config/```.

### Naming and structure

Config files ususally follow a certain logic : ```/config_location/name/config```

Example : ```~/.config/vim/vimrc```

> [!NOTE]
> Some config files are appended ```.conf```, ```.ini```, and others simply don't have a file extension or have rc in the name.

Programs that need more than one config might have a default configuration file and a directory for extra configuration.

Example for ```sudo``` : ```/etc/sudoers``` and ```/etc/sudoers.d```

# Task

Find the following files based on their purpose :

- The configuration file for a terminal called kitty (```kitty.conf```) for a user called Tom

- The system-wide configuration file for man_db called ```man_db.conf```

- A regular 64 bit library file called ```upowerd```

- A hard drive partition called sda3

## Solution

<details>
    <summary>Click to reveal solution</summary>

    - ```/home/Tom/.config/kitty/kitty.conf```

    - ```/etc/man_db.conf```

    - ```/usr/lib/upowerd```

    - ```/dev/sda3```

</details>
